= On the difference between Liberal Interventionism and Neoconservatism =

<blockquote>
Progressive internationalists recognize that U.S. foreign policy is now a
holistic enterprise that must first summon all sources of national power to
deal with what goes on within states as well as between them — direct and
multilateral diplomacy, development aid to build infrastructure and civil
society, trade to promote growth, intelligence collection, and law
enforcement, to name a few — and only then turn to force as the final
guarantor of peace and stability.

Neocons, however, disdain multilateral diplomacy and overestimate the efficacy
of military force. Their lopsided preoccupation with "hard power" creates an
imposing facade of strength, but in fact saps the economic, political, and
moral sources of American influence. By overspending on the military and
allowing the other levers of American power to atrophy, neocons misallocate
precious U.S. national resources in two ways — leaving the United States with
too little of the "smart power" capacities desperately needed in war zones
like Afghanistan and an overabundance of "hard power" capacities it will never
use. The trick is to carefully cultivate both, as Defense Secretary Robert
Gates, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff Adm. Mike Mullen have championed since Obama took power.

Progressive internationalists believe the United States should be the
unquestioned vanguard of democratic values, and that American leadership is
strengthened when granted a sense of legitimacy that attracts others to our
cause. Without a doubt, unilateral application of force in self-defense is a
legitimate exercise of power, but legitimacy can evaporate under two
circumstances: when America’s actions betray its core values or when America
acts offensively without an international mandate and the backing of close
allies. My organization, the Progressive Policy Institute, in a 2003 manifesto
on progressive internationalism, argued that "the way to keep America safe and
strong is not to impose our will on others or pursue a narrow, selfish
nationalism that betrays our best values, but to lead the world toward
political and economic freedom."

Neocons, by contrast, pursue security interests at the expense of American
values and damage U.S. legitimacy while doing so. That was George W. Bush: He
betrayed American values and alienated core international partners by
torturing prisoners, denying them any sense of due process, and falsifying a
threat to justify an effectively unilateral invasion of a Muslim country. He
strove for the mere appearance of legitimacy, forging ham-fisted, bribed
coalitions of the somewhat willing.
</blockquote>

-- https://foreignpolicy.com/2011/03/28/not-all-interventions-are-the-same/
