== Cinematic Journey ==

I have recently renewed my interest in cinema. As such I am going through the
Criterion collection and watching Mark Cousins’ _The Story of Film: An Odyssey_,
as well as a number of alternative sources for cinematic history.

As such, I am watching a lot of movies. The best way to absorb them is to write
about them. Thus, this repo.

I am chiefly interested in cinema’s symbolic and literary dimensions. After
that, I will comment on cinematography, directing style, characterization,
dialogue, and all the other features that go into a film. Truth be told, I am
absolutely _not_ reviewing these films. I am simply writing about them.

The file `journal.md` is just that, a cinematic journal. Each review is a new
markdown file beginning with the date in `YYYYMMDD_<title>.md` format. I will
use English titles with underscore spaces for the filenames and the original
language’s titles for the title within the file, as well as a translation (for
reference, especially in cases where the original title is in Cyrillic or
Japanese). The journal is a hodgepodge.

== Update 20200605 ==

This project has more or less fallen off. I cancelled my Criterion Channel
subscription because I haven't been using and and I wanted to save some money. I
haven't been watching many films, despite speaking French now (the primary
purpose of learning being to watch French art films) but hopefully I will
eventually get back to it.

I would also like to alphebetize this, despite it being ordered by date
viewed/written. I used a command to write in the filenames to write the links,
which is why they are ordered by date (the filenames begin with a date).

== [[reviews/journal.md|Film Journal]] ==

== Reviews ==

* [[reviews/bladerunner.md|Bladerunner]]
* [[reviews/20181027_the_beauty_and_the_beast.md|Beauty & the Beast]]
* [[reviews/20181028_orpheus.md|Orpheus]]
* [[reviews/20181031_stalker.md|Stalker]]
* [[reviews/20181108_andrei_rublev_185_minutes.md|Andrei Rublev 185 Minute Version]]
* [[reviews/20181110_the_seventh_seal.md|The Seventh Seal]]
* [[reviews/20181111_andrei_rublev_205_minutes.md|Andrei Rublev 205 Minute Version]]
* [[reviews/20181112_columbus.md|Columbus]]
* [[reviews/20181115_clouds_of_sils_maria.md|Clouds of Sils Maria]]
* [[reviews/20181116_the_endless.md|The Endless]]
* [[reviews/20181118_children_of_paradise.md|Children of Paradise]]
* [[reviews/20181120_summer_with_monika.md|Summer with Monika]]
* [[reviews/20181120_wild_strawberries.md|Wild Strawberries]]
* [[reviews/20181121_breathless.md|Breathless]]
* [[reviews/20181122_drive.md|Drive]]
* [[reviews/20181123_only_god_forgives.md|Only God Forgives]]
* [[reviews/20181124_the_meg.md|The Meg]]
* [[reviews/20181124_the_neon_demon.md|The Neon Demon]]
* [[reviews/20181125_in_darkness.md|In Darknes]]
* [[reviews/20181125_the_revenant.md|The Revenant]]
* [[reviews/20181127_tokyo_story.md|Tokyo Story]]
* [[reviews/20181202_au_hasard_balthazar.md|Au Hasard Balthazar]]
* [[reviews/20181202_the_sacrifice.md|The Sacrifice]]
* [[reviews/20181207_a_man_escaped.md|A Man Escaped]]
* [[reviews/20181209_pickpocket.md|Pickpocket]]
* [[reviews/20190310_hell_or_high_water.md|Hell or High Water]]
